docs/combined/Combined_Dev.md, before:

# Dev Documentation - Building Choir




==
Dev_Plan
==


# Development Plan

VERSION dev_plan:
invariants: {
"Documentation-driven development",
"Test-first implementation",
"Security-first approach"
}
assumptions: {
"AI code generation capabilities",
"Testing framework maturity",
"Documentation completeness"
}
docs_version: "0.2.1"

## Current Status (Oct 26)

The project currently consists of:

- Documentation corpus (~100k tokens)
- create-solana-dapp template
- Initial Render deployment
- Core specifications and tests

## Development Philosophy

### Documentation-Driven Development

The codebase is designed to scale with AI capabilities:

- High documentation-to-code ratio
- Tests generated from specifications
- Implementation guided by docs
- AI-assisted code generation

### Test-First Development

Security and correctness through:

- Fuzzing-driven program design
- Property-based testing
- Invariant verification
- Comprehensive test coverage

### AI-Assisted Evolution

Built to leverage improving AI:

- Code generation from docs
- Test case generation
- Pattern recognition
- Implementation assistance

## Implementation Schedule

### Day 1: Study & Planning (Oct 26)

- Study Trident anchor fuzzing
- Document testing patterns
- Plan security boundaries
- Prepare implementation strategy

### Day 2: Environment Setup (Oct 27)

- Development environment configuration
  - Next.js setup
  - FastAPI configuration
  - Solana development chain
  - Testing infrastructure
- CI/CD pipeline
- Secrets management
- Deployment automation

### Day 3-4: Core Protocol (Oct 28-29)

- CHOIR token implementation
- Thread program development
- State transition handlers
- Security verification
- Comprehensive testing

### Day 5: Backend (Oct 30)

- FastAPI implementation
- WebSocket protocol
- Qdrant integration
- State synchronization
- Cache management

### Day 6: Frontend (Oct 31)

- Core UI components
- Wallet integration
- Real-time updates
- State management
- Soft launch

### Day 7-8: Integration (Nov 1-2)

- System integration
- Analytics setup
- Monitoring implementation
- Performance optimization
- Bug fixes

## Testing Strategy

### Program Testing

- Unit tests with Bankrun
- Fuzzing with Trident
- Property verification
- Security boundaries

### Integration Testing

- End-to-end workflows
- State synchronization
- Error conditions
- Performance metrics

### Security Testing

- Attack surface analysis
- Invariant verification
- State transition validation
- Access control verification

## Monitoring Considerations

### System Health

- Performance metrics
- Error rates
- State consistency
- Network stability

### Security Monitoring

- Attack detection
- Anomaly identification
- State verification
- Access patterns

## Future Evolution

The system is designed to evolve with:

- Improved AI capabilities
- Enhanced testing tools
- Automated code generation
- Scaled development patterns

Through this approach, we create a foundation that:

- Scales with AI advancement
- Maintains security focus
- Enables rapid iteration
- Preserves system integrity


==
Dev_Pseudocode
==


# Choir Pseudocode Conventions

VERSION pseudocode_system:
invariants: {
"Functional clarity",
"Type safety",
"Pattern consistency"
}
assumptions: {
"Reader familiarity with functional concepts",
"Implementation language agnostic",
"Documentation-first development"
}
docs_version: "0.2.1"

## Core Philosophy

Our pseudocode serves as a bridge between formal specification and implementation. It combines functional programming's precision with readable syntax to create unambiguous yet accessible descriptions of system behavior.

## Type Declarations

Type declarations define the shape of data and enforce semantic boundaries. We use the TYPE keyword followed by the type name and its definition. Simple types can be records with named fields, each with its own type. Sum types (variants) use the pipe symbol to separate cases, each optionally containing data.

For example, a thread state would declare co-authors as a Set of PublicKeys, a token balance as a TokenAmount, and messages as a List of Message types. Results are typically wrapped in a Result type that can be either Ok with success data or Error with error information.

## Function Signatures

Functions declare their types explicitly to make data flow clear. The FUNCTION keyword introduces a function, followed by its name, input parameters with their types, and return type after an arrow. Parameter lists maintain clear type annotations for each parameter.

## Pattern Matching

Pattern matching expresses complex conditional logic through the MATCH keyword, followed by the value being matched and a series of patterns and their corresponding actions. Each pattern can destructure complex data types and bind variables for use in the result expression.

## Monadic Operations

For operations that involve state or effects, we use monadic notation. The BIND operator (often written as >>=) chains operations, while RETURN lifts pure values into the effect context. This makes side effects explicit and composable.

## Invariant Declarations

System invariants use the INVARIANT keyword followed by a name and a predicate that must hold. These can appear in type definitions, function specifications, or standalone assertions about system properties.

## Property Specifications

Properties about the system use the PROPERTY keyword followed by a name and a specification. These often use quantifiers (FORALL, EXISTS) and logical operators to express complex requirements.

## Sequence Declarations

For ordered operations, the SEQUENCE keyword introduces a named sequence of steps. Each step can reference results from previous steps and produce values for subsequent ones.

## Verification Conditions

When specifying correctness conditions, the VERIFY keyword introduces properties that must be checked. These can appear within functions or as standalone proof obligations.

## Error Handling

Error cases use the REQUIRE keyword for preconditions and the ENSURE keyword for postconditions. The Result type explicitly handles success and failure cases in return values.

## State Transitions

State machine transitions use arrow notation (→) with optional conditions in square brackets. The before and after states are explicitly labeled, with transition conditions when needed.

## Documentation Comments

Each construct should be documented with its purpose, assumptions, and any special considerations. These appear as prose before the construct they describe.

## Implementation Notes

The NOTE keyword introduces implementation-specific details or considerations that don't affect the formal specification but are important for developers.

## Evolution Patterns

The ASSUMPTION keyword documents aspects of the system that may change, including rationale for current choices and constraints on future changes.

## Usage Guidelines

This pseudocode style should be used consistently across all technical documentation. It provides a common language for expressing both formal properties and practical implementations while maintaining readability for all stakeholders.

Through these conventions, we create documentation that serves as both specification and guide, bridging the gap between formal methods and practical development.

Commit message:

hibernate anchor-bankrun and trident til post-pmf; update docs

docs/combined/Combined_Dev.md, after:

# Dev Documentation - Building Choir




==
Dev_Plan
==


# Development Plan

VERSION dev_plan:
invariants: {
"Documentation-driven development",
"Test-first implementation",
"Security-first approach"
}
assumptions: {
"AI code generation capabilities",
"Testing framework maturity",
"Documentation completeness"
}
docs_version: "0.2.1"

## Current Status (Oct 26)

The project currently consists of:

- Documentation corpus (~100k tokens)
- create-solana-dapp template
- Initial Render deployment
- Core specifications and tests

## Development Philosophy

### Documentation-Driven Development

The codebase is designed to scale with AI capabilities:

- High documentation-to-code ratio
- Tests generated from specifications
- Implementation guided by docs
- AI-assisted code generation

### Test-First Development

Security and correctness through:

- Property-based testing
- Invariant verification
- Comprehensive test coverage
- Security-focused test cases

### AI-Assisted Evolution

Built to leverage improving AI:

- Code generation from docs
- Test case generation
- Pattern recognition
- Implementation assistance

## Implementation Schedule

### Day 1: Study & Planning (Oct 26)

- Document testing patterns
- Plan security boundaries
- Prepare implementation strategy
- Setup test infrastructure

### Day 2: Environment Setup (Oct 27)

- Development environment configuration
  - Next.js setup
  - FastAPI configuration
  - Solana development chain
  - Testing infrastructure
- CI/CD pipeline
- Secrets management
- Deployment automation

### Day 3-4: Core Protocol (Oct 28-29)

- CHOIR token implementation
- Thread program development
- State transition handlers
- Security verification
- Comprehensive testing

### Day 5: Backend (Oct 30)

- FastAPI implementation
- WebSocket protocol
- Qdrant integration
- State synchronization
- Cache management

### Day 6: Frontend (Oct 31)

- Core UI components
- Wallet integration
- Real-time updates
- State management
- Soft launch

### Day 7-8: Integration (Nov 1-2)

- System integration
- Analytics setup
- Monitoring implementation
- Performance optimization
- Bug fixes

## Testing Strategy

### Program Testing

- Unit tests with Bankrun - post pmf
- Fuzzing with Trident — post pmf
    - hard time setting these up; tests take too long to run while iteration speed is of the essence. anchor test works for now.
- Property verification
- Security boundaries

### Integration Testing

- End-to-end workflows
- State synchronization
- Error conditions
- Performance metrics

### Security Testing

- Attack surface analysis
- Invariant verification
- State transition validation
- Access control verification

## Monitoring Considerations

### System Health

- Performance metrics
- Error rates
- State consistency
- Network stability

### Security Monitoring

- Attack detection
- Anomaly identification
- State verification
- Access patterns

## Future Evolution

The system is designed to evolve with:

- Improved AI capabilities
- Enhanced testing tools
- Automated code generation
- Scaled development patterns

Through this approach, we create a foundation that:

- Scales with AI advancement
- Maintains security focus
- Enables rapid iteration
- Preserves system integrity


==
Dev_Pseudocode
==


# Choir Pseudocode Conventions

VERSION pseudocode_system:
invariants: {
"Functional clarity",
"Type safety",
"Pattern consistency"
}
assumptions: {
"Reader familiarity with functional concepts",
"Implementation language agnostic",
"Documentation-first development"
}
docs_version: "0.2.1"

## Core Philosophy

Our pseudocode serves as a bridge between formal specification and implementation. It combines functional programming's precision with readable syntax to create unambiguous yet accessible descriptions of system behavior.

## Type Declarations

Type declarations define the shape of data and enforce semantic boundaries. We use the TYPE keyword followed by the type name and its definition. Simple types can be records with named fields, each with its own type. Sum types (variants) use the pipe symbol to separate cases, each optionally containing data.

For example, a thread state would declare co-authors as a Set of PublicKeys, a token balance as a TokenAmount, and messages as a List of Message types. Results are typically wrapped in a Result type that can be either Ok with success data or Error with error information.

## Function Signatures

Functions declare their types explicitly to make data flow clear. The FUNCTION keyword introduces a function, followed by its name, input parameters with their types, and return type after an arrow. Parameter lists maintain clear type annotations for each parameter.

## Pattern Matching

Pattern matching expresses complex conditional logic through the MATCH keyword, followed by the value being matched and a series of patterns and their corresponding actions. Each pattern can destructure complex data types and bind variables for use in the result expression.

## Monadic Operations

For operations that involve state or effects, we use monadic notation. The BIND operator (often written as >>=) chains operations, while RETURN lifts pure values into the effect context. This makes side effects explicit and composable.

## Invariant Declarations

System invariants use the INVARIANT keyword followed by a name and a predicate that must hold. These can appear in type definitions, function specifications, or standalone assertions about system properties.

## Property Specifications

Properties about the system use the PROPERTY keyword followed by a name and a specification. These often use quantifiers (FORALL, EXISTS) and logical operators to express complex requirements.

## Sequence Declarations

For ordered operations, the SEQUENCE keyword introduces a named sequence of steps. Each step can reference results from previous steps and produce values for subsequent ones.

## Verification Conditions

When specifying correctness conditions, the VERIFY keyword introduces properties that must be checked. These can appear within functions or as standalone proof obligations.

## Error Handling

Error cases use the REQUIRE keyword for preconditions and the ENSURE keyword for postconditions. The Result type explicitly handles success and failure cases in return values.

## State Transitions

State machine transitions use arrow notation (→) with optional conditions in square brackets. The before and after states are explicitly labeled, with transition conditions when needed.

## Documentation Comments

Each construct should be documented with its purpose, assumptions, and any special considerations. These appear as prose before the construct they describe.

## Implementation Notes

The NOTE keyword introduces implementation-specific details or considerations that don't affect the formal specification but are important for developers.

## Evolution Patterns

The ASSUMPTION keyword documents aspects of the system that may change, including rationale for current choices and constraints on future changes.

## Usage Guidelines

This pseudocode style should be used consistently across all technical documentation. It provides a common language for expressing both formal properties and practical implementations while maintaining readability for all stakeholders.

Through these conventions, we create documentation that serves as both specification and guide, bridging the gap between formal methods and practical development.
