docs/Dev_Plan.md, before:

# Development Plan

VERSION dev_plan:
invariants: {
"Documentation-driven development",
"Test-first implementation",
"Security-first approach"
}
assumptions: {
"AI code generation capabilities",
"Testing framework maturity",
"Documentation completeness"
}
docs_version: "0.2.1"

## Current Status (Oct 26)

The project currently consists of:

- Documentation corpus (~100k tokens)
- create-solana-dapp template
- Initial Render deployment
- Core specifications and tests

## Development Philosophy

### Documentation-Driven Development

The codebase is designed to scale with AI capabilities:

- High documentation-to-code ratio
- Tests generated from specifications
- Implementation guided by docs
- AI-assisted code generation

### Test-First Development

Security and correctness through:

- Fuzzing-driven program design
- Property-based testing
- Invariant verification
- Comprehensive test coverage

### AI-Assisted Evolution

Built to leverage improving AI:

- Code generation from docs
- Test case generation
- Pattern recognition
- Implementation assistance

## Implementation Schedule

### Day 1: Study & Planning (Oct 26)

- Study Trident anchor fuzzing
- Document testing patterns
- Plan security boundaries
- Prepare implementation strategy

### Day 2: Environment Setup (Oct 27)

- Development environment configuration
  - Next.js setup
  - FastAPI configuration
  - Solana development chain
  - Testing infrastructure
- CI/CD pipeline
- Secrets management
- Deployment automation

### Day 3-4: Core Protocol (Oct 28-29)

- CHOIR token implementation
- Thread program development
- State transition handlers
- Security verification
- Comprehensive testing

### Day 5: Backend (Oct 30)

- FastAPI implementation
- WebSocket protocol
- Qdrant integration
- State synchronization
- Cache management

### Day 6: Frontend (Oct 31)

- Core UI components
- Wallet integration
- Real-time updates
- State management
- Soft launch

### Day 7-8: Integration (Nov 1-2)

- System integration
- Analytics setup
- Monitoring implementation
- Performance optimization
- Bug fixes

## Testing Strategy

### Program Testing

- Unit tests with Bankrun
- Fuzzing with Trident
- Property verification
- Security boundaries

### Integration Testing

- End-to-end workflows
- State synchronization
- Error conditions
- Performance metrics

### Security Testing

- Attack surface analysis
- Invariant verification
- State transition validation
- Access control verification

## Monitoring Considerations

### System Health

- Performance metrics
- Error rates
- State consistency
- Network stability

### Security Monitoring

- Attack detection
- Anomaly identification
- State verification
- Access patterns

## Future Evolution

The system is designed to evolve with:

- Improved AI capabilities
- Enhanced testing tools
- Automated code generation
- Scaled development patterns

Through this approach, we create a foundation that:

- Scales with AI advancement
- Maintains security focus
- Enables rapid iteration
- Preserves system integrity

Commit message:

hibernate anchor-bankrun and trident til post-pmf; update docs

docs/Dev_Plan.md, after:

# Development Plan

VERSION dev_plan:
invariants: {
"Documentation-driven development",
"Test-first implementation",
"Security-first approach"
}
assumptions: {
"AI code generation capabilities",
"Testing framework maturity",
"Documentation completeness"
}
docs_version: "0.2.1"

## Current Status (Oct 26)

The project currently consists of:

- Documentation corpus (~100k tokens)
- create-solana-dapp template
- Initial Render deployment
- Core specifications and tests

## Development Philosophy

### Documentation-Driven Development

The codebase is designed to scale with AI capabilities:

- High documentation-to-code ratio
- Tests generated from specifications
- Implementation guided by docs
- AI-assisted code generation

### Test-First Development

Security and correctness through:

- Property-based testing
- Invariant verification
- Comprehensive test coverage
- Security-focused test cases

### AI-Assisted Evolution

Built to leverage improving AI:

- Code generation from docs
- Test case generation
- Pattern recognition
- Implementation assistance

## Implementation Schedule

### Day 1: Study & Planning (Oct 26)

- Document testing patterns
- Plan security boundaries
- Prepare implementation strategy
- Setup test infrastructure

### Day 2: Environment Setup (Oct 27)

- Development environment configuration
  - Next.js setup
  - FastAPI configuration
  - Solana development chain
  - Testing infrastructure
- CI/CD pipeline
- Secrets management
- Deployment automation

### Day 3-4: Core Protocol (Oct 28-29)

- CHOIR token implementation
- Thread program development
- State transition handlers
- Security verification
- Comprehensive testing

### Day 5: Backend (Oct 30)

- FastAPI implementation
- WebSocket protocol
- Qdrant integration
- State synchronization
- Cache management

### Day 6: Frontend (Oct 31)

- Core UI components
- Wallet integration
- Real-time updates
- State management
- Soft launch

### Day 7-8: Integration (Nov 1-2)

- System integration
- Analytics setup
- Monitoring implementation
- Performance optimization
- Bug fixes

## Testing Strategy

### Program Testing

- Unit tests with Bankrun - post pmf
- Fuzzing with Trident — post pmf
    - hard time setting these up; tests take too long to run while iteration speed is of the essence. anchor test works for now.
- Property verification
- Security boundaries

### Integration Testing

- End-to-end workflows
- State synchronization
- Error conditions
- Performance metrics

### Security Testing

- Attack surface analysis
- Invariant verification
- State transition validation
- Access control verification

## Monitoring Considerations

### System Health

- Performance metrics
- Error rates
- State consistency
- Network stability

### Security Monitoring

- Attack detection
- Anomaly identification
- State verification
- Access patterns

## Future Evolution

The system is designed to evolve with:

- Improved AI capabilities
- Enhanced testing tools
- Automated code generation
- Scaled development patterns

Through this approach, we create a foundation that:

- Scales with AI advancement
- Maintains security focus
- Enables rapid iteration
- Preserves system integrity
